so in this video we're going to see how to
run the sqlite command-line shell on
a mac if you're using Windows refer to
the previous video if you're using linux
and actually refer to the video after
this one where we actually set up for
those relevant operating systems but if
you're on a Mac you're in the right
place
let's get started now as it turns out
python includes sqlite in its
standard library so we don't actually
need to install anything to install a
sqlite in our python programs
but writing database code straightaway
isn't the easiest way to learn about
sqlite and the sql language if
you get errors you have to work out then
if the errors in your python code or the
sql statements that you've used so
what we're going to do is we're going to
start out by using the sqlite
command line shell so that we can create
databases and use sql commands
directly without having to worry about
the python side of things that for now
now on a Mac turns out this is really
really easy and that's because the
sqlite command line shell is already installed
on a mac so there's really nothing else
we need to do to be able to get to work
to be able to get that up and running so
just to confirm that it is working
open a terminal session you can do that
by holding a command pressing space that
will open that screen up there and we can
just type in terminal press enter that
loads the terminal screen and to test
that we've got a sqlite
sqlite is installed we type...
....and you
can see that we've got some
text showing on the screen you can
see that sqlite3 is actually
successfully installed now don't worry
if you see slightly different version
numbers there this program is updated
from time to time but to so long as you
you actually can see that it has started
the program and it looks like it's
working then we're good to go
so at this point we can quit out of this
by typing....going to type exit
to close down the command shell and I
going to close down the terminal
window and this point we're good to go
so skip the next video unless for some
reason you also want to install sqlite3
on a linux machine and the
video after that then actually go ahead
and start using sqlite so i'll see
you in the next video